# tic-tac-toe in Java
&emsp;This is a simple Tic-Tac-Toe game that I have made using Java and the swing library. Tic-Tac-Toe is a game where two players compete on a three-by-three board. One player is assigned the "X" character and the other is the "O". These players must take turns and try to get three of their tiles in a line. The first player to do so will be crowned the victor.

&emsp;There are many methods that I had to take into account when I was making this program. For instance, the only input the users will be sent to the program for this game will be whenever they click on a tile. For that reason, all the tiles had to be assigned an action listener whenever they were first declared using: *board[i][j].addActionListener(controller);*

&emsp;Another thing I had to consider was the methodology that the program would be using. For example, the outputs to the user that the program would be sending. There are three types of outputs that the program can send to the user. These outputs include text displayed on the lower portion of the window with the use of a JLabel to show the user whose turn it is and who is the winner. Another example is the use of text displayed on the tiles to show what the player has claimed on that tile. The last output that this program uses is color. Whenever a player wins, or there is a tie, the board is colored the appropriate color using *.setBackground(c)* on the proper tiles. Another type of methodology that I had to consider was all the calculations and checks that would be done in the background within the TicTacToeModel.java file. One example being that I would need to check for a winner after every turn. I did this by checking all the tiles that were in a in a line of three to see if they all had the same player. If they did, then that player would be crowned the winner and those tiles would be highlighted.
